[Music]
boy when someone says 10 years ago we
think they talked about the 90s come on
I can't be the only one yet in just a
decade we've had so many new discoveries
and fun facts that brought us closer to
understanding how the world works let's
go back in time and check it out 2010
scientists found an ancient finger which
belonged to an undiscovered ancestor of
ours the species was given the name
donessa Vence but we're still not sure
what they looked like the world's
tallest building open in Dubai
it's the Burj Kalifa and it stands at
two thousand seven hundred twenty three
feet it was also the year of the longest
traffic jam in history it stretched 62
miles and lasted ten days experts found
some sharks in the Gulf of Mexico that
are as small as five and a half inches
they look like many sperm whales a
yellow-bellied lizard finally evolved to
give birth it's a species of an
australian lizard that reproduces by
laying eggs yet a few of its kind that
live in colder environments started
giving birth to live young instead of
eggs 2011 the space shuttle Discovery
which had been active since 1984 took
its 39th and final flight that year on
October 31st the world population
reached 7 billion we discovered Neptune
more than 150 years ago yet on July 12th
it completed its first known orbit
around the Sun yeah it probably has been
doing that for a long time but we didn't
notice a person put a grape cut in half
in the microwave to discover that it
caught fire
scientists later used that experiment in
their physics studies ok to be clear
let's not go blowing up grapes 2012 the
year that made us believe the world
would come to an end
oops not so fast Venus passed directly
between the Sun and the earth this won't
happen again until 2117
NASA landed a rover on Mars called
curiosity it was the fourth one sent by
NASA and it cruised around to find out
whether there had been life on Mars
Felix Baumgartner became the first
person to break the sound barrier
without any mechanical assistance by
free-falling from the stratosphere a new
research by the National Academy of
Science found that aging Apes
experienced the same midlife crisis we
humans go through fishermen found
European catfish can take down pigeons
they filmed the fish jumping out of the
water and targeting the birds at the
shore scientists discovered bacteria can
use minerals in the soil to conduct
electricity despite their tiny size
really shocking news scientists studied
a 300 year old unique plant growing only
on two cliffs in Spain according to
their findings ants are the ones that
keep the plant alive there's a blue
African fruit with a most intensely
colored tissue ever found in a
biological study it reflects 30% of
light and has a bluish purple color
2013 the California Institute of
Technology reported that there are at
least 100 billion planets in our galaxy
alone a skeleton was found beneath a
parking lot in England after months of
research they determined that it
belonged to King Richard the third no
sign was found of his car scientists
discovered that cheetahs don't overheat
when they run at 70 miles per hour
despite being the fastest land animals
and I'm sweating sitting here thinking
about it
a study in social psychology concluded
that fonts which are harder to read are
more convincing this is because readers
are forced to slow down read things word
by word and spend longer thinking about
the facts a full lab-grown burger was
finally made it took two years to
produce and it cost 325 thousand bucks
cows across America began to have ho
2014 scientists discovered that water
vapor was coming out of the dwarf planet
Ceres that's also the largest asteroid
in our solar system archaeologists
excavated a site that was below two
ancient temples in central Rome there
they found votive offerings figurines
and drinking vessels to maybe even a
Vespa NASA's MAVEN spacecraft reached
Mars for its mission to study the red
planet's atmosphere a probe named
Rosetta let its lander loose on the 67p
comet it observed the Comets closest
approach to the Sun and studied its
surface scientists studied 48 bird
species for over 4 years and they
finally announced that according to
genetics birds evolved from dinosaurs
[Music]
researchers studied a pink spot on the
head of leatherback sea turtles as it
turns out it acts as a biological clock
which alerts them about changes in
sunlight and seasons inside the
constellation of the giraffe
yup seriously scientists discovered two
massive blue stars merging into one 2015
it was all about space this year the
spacecraft named messenger had been sent
to study Mercury's matter and after four
years of orbiting the planet it crashed
into a surface ten years after NASA's
April Fool's joke that water existed on
Mars scientists discovered that there's
actually liquid water occasionally
flowing on Mars
despite its freezing temperature a guy
named Sven held the world's record for
the longest birthday ever his day lasted
around 46 hours as he crossed multiple
time zones to achieve his goal and
NASA's new Horizons spacecraft flew by
Pluto and gave us a closer look at what
it looks like scientists found a huge
floating Mountain made of water ice and
some signs reading hey we're still a
planet
20:16 bottled water was sold more than
carbonated soft drinks for the first
time ever the daily Google searches
began to approach three billion one two
three four five six was the most
commonly used password for three years
in a row
the world's largest blue star sapphire
was found in Sri Lanka it's a little
more than 1,400 carats a paleontologist
isolated a fossil from 440 million years
ago and it was the oldest fossilized
fungi ever found DNA showed that Nile
crocodiles which eat any living being in
their path made their way to Florida
swamps the alligators there were not
thrilled by this 2017 a 16 year old was
asking a fast food chain through social
media for free chicken nuggets for a
year and it worked why didn't I think of
that an airline filled a plane with
puppies to help them escape from
hurricane Harvick NASA's Cassini
spacecraft found a possible energy
source for life on Enceladus one of
Saturn's moons speaking of researchers
found that you can actually hear the
universe through gravitational waves
those waves came when two neutron stars
collided 20:18 experts found that citrus
fruits go all the way back to the
foothills of amo Leia's there were 65
thousand year old cave paintings in
Spain made by the Neanderthals this
makes them the first species on earth to
begin documenting history the world's
oldest message in a bottle was
discovered in Australia and it was
around a hundred thirty two years old it
had been thrown from a German ship
called Paula in 1886 scientists also
discovered that unlike modern reptiles
dinosaurs possibly shed their skin
gradually
during a solar eclipse scientists found
that bees
stop buzzing when the moon blocked the
sunlight they all just went quiet
scientists discovered that even though
our eardrums have nothing to do with our
sight they move when our eyes move
researchers discovered that we store
around 5,000 faces in our memory yet the
number could go as high as 10,000 it was
estimated that there are 10 million
black holes in our galaxy alone a new
study showed that some types of spiders
can produce milk for their babies and
it's even more nutritious than cow's
milk ah not me you can go milk a spider
scientists discovered a new organ in our
body that contains little spaces filled
with fluid and it holds up to 20% of our
body weight it was proven that playing
video games can affect our moods
positively and impact our motivation
2019 because our diets changed in the
last centuries scientists found out that
our teeth and jaws evolved and alter the
way we talk this year we saw a natural
egg green colored puppy being born it
was given the name Hulk
another one was born two years ago and
got the name Forrest I can't wait for
the little pea to arrive Hey what name
would you give to a green colored puppy
let me know down in the comments
giraffes with dark spots were found to
be more dominant than ones with lighter
colored spots another research about
bees showed that they can do math they
can add subtract and understand the
concept of zero Mars Opportunity Rovers
mission ended after 15 years because of
a powerful sandstorm that damaged all
communications a stolen Picasso painting
was finally found in March of 2019 it
was recovered after 20 years by an art
detective we had the first photo of a
black hole that made the Internet go
crazy it's six and a half billion times
the mass of the Sun and 55 million light
years away
vantablack is a material that used to be
the darkest human-made object in the
world but now MIT engineers developed
something 10 times darker it doesn't
have a name yet but it absorbs more than
99.99% of light boy can't wait to see
what happens this decade hey if you
learn something new today then give the
video a like and Cheer with a friend and
here are some other cool videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life